Update draft-ietf-wish-whip.md (#206)
wish-wg/webrtc-http-ingest-protocol: draft-ietf-wish-whip.md

# Protocol Operation

## HTTP usage 

> Following {{?BCP56}} guidelines, WHIP clients MUST NOT match error codes returned by the WHIP endpoints and resources to a specific error cause indicated in this specification. WHIP clients MUST be able to handle all applicable status codes gracefully falling back to the generic n00 semantics of a given status code on unknown error codes. WHIP endpoints and resources COULD convey finer-grained error information by a problem statement json object in the response message body of the failed request as per {{?RFC7807}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following {{?BCP56}} guidelines, WHIP clients MUST NOT match error codes returned by the WHIP endpoints and resources to a specific error cause indicated in this specification. WHIP clients MUST be able to handle all applicable status codes gracefully falling back to the generic n00 semantics of a given status code on unknown error codes. WHIP endpoints and resources COULD convey finer-grained error information by a problem statement json object in the response message body of the failed request as per {{?RFC9457}}.
```

The WHIP endpoints and sessions are origin servers as defined in {{Section 3.6. of !RFC9110}} handling the requests and providing responses for the underlying HTTP resources. Those HTTP resources do not have any representation defined in this specification, so the WHIP endpoints and sessions MUST return a 2XX sucessfull response with no content when a GET request is received.

## Ingest session set up

In order to set up an ingestion session, the WHIP client MUST generate an SDP offer according to the JSEP rules for an initial offer as in {{Section 5.2.1 of !RFC9429}} and perform an HTTP POST request as per {{Section 9.3.3 of !RFC9110}} to the configured WHIP endpoint URL.

> The HTTP POST request MUST have a content type of "application/sdp" and contain the SDP offer as the body. The WHIP endpoint MUST generate an SDP answer according to the JSEP rules for an initial answer as in {{Section 5.3.1 of !RFC9429}} and return a "201 Created" response with a content type of "application/sdp", the SDP answer as the body, and a Location header field pointing to the newly created WHIP session. If the HTTP POST to the WHIP endpoint has a content type different than "application/sdp" or the SDP is malformed, the WHIP endpoint MUST reject the HTTP POST request with an appropiate 4XX error response. 

Reviewer: I think this statement does a good job of providing a balance between "what should I expect if I do this wrong" and "respecifying RFC9110".  It suggests common failure modes and clarifies that the HTTP status code should be used to communicate those failures. Thank you!

The WHIP client MAY perform trickle ICE or ICE restarts by sending an HTTP PATCH request as per {{!RFC5789}} to the WHIP session URL, with a body containing an SDP fragment with media type "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" as specified in {{!RFC8840}} carrying the relevant ICE information.

> If the HTTP PATCH to the WHIP session has a content type different than "application/trickle-ice-sdpfrag" or the SDP fragment is malformed, the WHIP session MUST reject the HTTP PATCH request with an 4XX error response.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> If the WHIP session supports either Trickle ICE or ICE restarts, but not both, it MUST return an 5XX error response for the HTTP PATCH requests that are not supported as per {{Section 15.5.21 of !RFC9110}}. 

Reviewer: 501 is only used when the origin server does not support a method for ANY resource on the origin server.  I don't believe this is the case here.
I think using 422 is a reasonable choice here to convey that request cannot be handled (for some reason).  The BCP56 guidance is recommending that the specification doesn't equate 422 to "Trickle ICE or ICE restart is not supported".  The specification should not restrict 422 from being used for other application level errors that fall within the semantics of "unprocessable entity".   If it is believed that the client needs to know their request failed because the server doesn't support their specific kind of request, e.g. so they can try the alternative automatically, then it may be wise to communicate the specifics via an HTTP problem response. This would allow for the use of 422 to describe other kinds of application errors in the future.

### Single MediaStream

> WHIP only supports a single MediaStream as defined in {{!RFC8830}} and therefore all "m=" sections MUST contain a "msid" attribute with the same value. The MediaStream MUST contain at least one MediaStreamTrack of any media kind and it MUST NOT have two or more than MediaStreamTracks for the same media (audio or video). However, it would be possible for future revisions of this spec to allow more than a single MediaStream or MediaStreamTrack of each media kind, so in order to ensure forward compatibility, if the number of audio and or video MediaStreamTracks or number of MediaStreams are not supported by the WHIP endpoint, it MUST reject the HTTP POST request with an appropiate 4XX error response.

Author: how about this? 
```suggestion
WHIP only supports a single MediaStream as defined in {{!RFC8830}} and therefore all "m=" sections MUST contain a "msid" attribute with the same value. The MediaStream MUST contain at least one MediaStreamTrack of any media kind and it MUST NOT have two or more than MediaStreamTracks for the same media (audio or video). However, it would be possible for future revisions of this spec to allow more than a single MediaStream or MediaStreamTrack of each media kind, so in order to ensure forward compatibility, if the number of audio and or video MediaStreamTracks or number of MediaStreams are not supported by the WHIP endpoint, it MUST reject the HTTP POST request with an "422 Unprocessable Content" or "400 Bad Request" error response. The WHIP endpoint MAY also return a problem statement as recommended in {{#http-usage}} proving further error details about the failed request.
```

> 

Reviewer: This sounds like another case of a 422 or 400 status code.  I don't think it is unreasonable for you to require the use of one of those HTTP status codes.  As long as the specification doesn't say something like "when you get 400 it means application error X".  The open question remains, if you choose the 400 or 422 status code as the required value, how will the consumer know that they have requested a number of audio/video mediastreamtracks or mediastreams that are not supported?  Do they need to know?  Is it sufficient for them just to know "your request was bad, go use some other tool to debug your request payload"?

### No partially successful answers

> The WHIP endpoint SHOULD NOT reject individual "m=" sections as per {{Section 5.3.1 of !RFC9429}} in case there is any error processing the "m=" section, but reject the HTTP POST request with a 4XX error response to prevent having partially successful ingest sessions which can be misleading to end users.

Reviewer: Same comment as above.  Pick whether you want to use 422 or 400 for these kind of errors. Considering you are calling out these distinct failure modes based on the request body content, it seems like this is relevant information to communicate with client. Therefore, I would suggest you consider including the details of these failures in a http-problem response payload.  You definitely do not want to redefine 406 to communicate this specific application level error.

### DTLS setup role and SDP "setup" attribute

> When a WHIP client sends an SDP offer, it SHOULD insert an SDP "setup" attribute with an "actpass" attribute value, as defined in {{!RFC8842}}. However, if the WHIP client only implements the DTLS client role, it MAY use an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active" attribute value. If the WHIP endpoint does not support an SDP offer with an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active" attribute value, it SHOULD reject the request with an appropiate 4XX error response.

Author: Also, to be consistent with the above changes, how about this?

```suggestion
When a WHIP client sends an SDP offer, it SHOULD insert an SDP "setup" attribute with an "actpass" attribute value, as defined in {{!RFC8842}}. However, if the WHIP client only implements the DTLS client role, it MAY use an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active" attribute value. If the WHIP endpoint does not support an SDP offer with an SDP "setup" attribute with an "active" attribute value, it SHOULD reject the request with an "422 Unprocessable Content" or "400 Bad Request" error response.
```
